Web applications part 1 (Browser.sandbox) (#730)
exercism/elm: exercises/concept/paulas-palindromes/.docs/hints.md

# Hints

## General

- Check out the [Elm Guide][elm-guide], which has a nice worked example that is similar.

## 1. Define the Model and Msg types for the application

- The `Model` contains the application's state - all the data that the application needs.
- This application just needs a string to store the text in the Text Box (the tests require it to be called `content`).

> - It can be any type, but in any useful application it is usually a [record][record].

Reviewer: Let's move this suggestion to be in second place, because the hint above mentions the field name
```suggestion
- It should be a record][record].
```

> - The `Msg` type is a defines the messages that are passed to the `update` function, to trigger specific changes in the model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `Msg` type defines the messages that are passed to the `update` function, to trigger specific changes in the model.
```

> - This application only needs one change to the model - updating the model when the text in the Text Box changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This application only needs one change to the model - updating the model when the text in the text box changes.
```

> - It can be any type, but in any useful application it is usually a [custom type][custom-type].

Reviewer: This would also be best in second place
```suggestion
- It should be a [custom type][custom-type].
```

- The `init` function should simply return a `Model` with sensible a default value (the tests require an empty string).

## 2. Write the update function

- In any useful application the update function will use a `case` statement to pattern match on the `Msg` parameter.
- In each branch of the case statement it will extract information it needs from the `Msg` parameter and return an updated `Model`
- The `Model` should be a record, and [record update syntax][record-update-syntax] is normally used.

## 3. Write the view function

> - The `view` function should probably return a `div` for the root element

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `view` function should return a `div` for the root element
```

- The first child should be an `input`, with a `value` attribute for the current text, and an `onInput` attribute / event with the relevant variant of the `Msg`.

> - The second child should probably be another `div` with a `text` child stating whether the text is a palindrome or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The second child should be another `div` with a `text` child stating whether the text is a palindrome or not.
```

- It can be any type, but in any useful application it is always a [custom type][custom-type].

## 2. Write the update function

- In any useful application the update function will use a `case` statement to pattern match on the `Msg` parameter.
- In each branch of the case statement it will extract information it needs from the `Msg` parameter and return an updated `Model`
- The `Model` should be a record, and [record update syntax][record-update-syntax] is normally used.

## 3. Write the view function

- The `view` function should probably return a `div` for the root element
- The first child should be an `input`, with a `value` attribute for the current text, and an `onInput` attribute / event with the relevant variant of the `Msg`.
- The second child should probably be another `div` with a `text` child stating whether the text is a palindrome or not.

## 4. Write the init function

- This should simply return a `Model` with sensible a default value (the tests require an empty string).

## 5. Write the main function

- The main function should just call [`Browser.sandbox`][browser-sandbox]

> - `Browser.sandbox` requires a [record][record] argument with the `init`, `update` and `view` functions.

Reviewer: The type signature also needs to go from `Html msg` to `Html Msg`, so either we remove the type signature, either we add a hint about it.
I know that `msg` versus `Msg` is a big source of confusion for beginners so I'm leaning towards removing the type signature.

EDIT: oh, and later on when I tried to run the exercise locally, the signature clashed with `Program () Model Msg` so yes, let's just remove it.
